---
layout: post
title:  "For the Love of God, Ask FizzBuzz"
date:   2013-10-25 11:00:00
categories: interviews
commentslink: "https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=6622932"
comments: "Head over to the <a href='https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=6622932'>comments on Hacker News</a> to discuss this article"
---

Software engineering interviews are a very open-ended art form. Every company
puts their own particular spin on things so that they can figure out whether
or not a candidate is both qualified and a good fit for their team. But there 
is one thing that I strongly believe every single company should do when
interviewing: **ask FizzBuzz.**

Just to be clear, I don't literally mean that you should ask the specific [FizzBuzz
problem](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fizz_buzz#Other_uses). You can ask any
 sort of basic, non-brain teaser problem you want. 

* Count the number of words in a sentence that start and end with the same letter.
* Print out every other odd number in a list. 
* Or, to blatantly steal a question that one of my coworkers likes to ask, 
  print out the diagonals of a matrix. 

And so on. The point is to figure out whether or not someone can actually code.

<!-- more -->

Don't give a candidate a day long programming assignment. Don't try and bring
them on as a contractor for a short stint. Don't do a code review of a repo on 
their github. Don't do much of anything, not until you've established that they 
can solve a trivial problem without any sort of fuss.

A good resume with a long list of well-known companies and a degree from a 
top-tier engineering school doesn't guarantee anything. Even someone who sounds
competent on a technical phone-screen might not be able to put down simple code.
And to reiterate, I'm not talking about the brain-teaser type problems that
pretty much everyone, [including Google](http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2013/06/google-finally-admits-that-its-infamous-brainteasers-were-completely-useless-for-hiring/277053/),
knows are useless. It should be something that you could write in under a few 
minutes while you are hung-over on a Friday morning. Before your first cup of coffee.

This was all brought up last night when a friend of mine asked for advice on how
to conduct a technical interview. I suggested a FizzBuzz type problem (among other
things) and he was in a small state of disbelief that something so simple was a
necessary question to ask. I reassured him that, yes, it was necessary, as I have
seen people flounder on questions like these.

A solid answer to FizzBuzz is like a firm handshake when meeting your new boss
or like opening the door for your date. It's an introduction that sets a 
minimum bar and guarantees that neither the interviewer nor the candidate is 
wasting the other's time.

